Rework texts in learn/css/first_steps/getting_started/index.md (#17417)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn/css/first_steps/getting_started/index.md

  </tbody>
</table>

## Adding an HTML document

Our starting point is an HTML document. You can copy the code from below and save it as `index.html` in a folder on your computer.

```html

> <!doctype html>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!DOCTYPE html>
```
This is what is usually used.

</html>
```

> **Note:** If you are reading this on a device or environment where you can't easily create files, then don't worry — you can write example code in our interactive editor right here in the page.

> ## Adding CSS to the document

Author: ```suggestion
## Adding CSS to our document
```

> First, tell the HTML document that we have some CSS rules we want it to use. There are three options to apply CSS to an HTML document, which will be part of the next lesson.

Reviewer 2: in long files it is ok to duplicate a link as someone might just read a subsection.

For now, we will use the most common way — linking CSS from the head of your document.

1. Create a file in the same folder as your HTML document and save it as `styles.css`. The `.css` extension shows that this is a CSS file.

> 2. To link `styles.css` to `index.html`, add the following line somewhere inside the {{htmlelement("head")}} of the HTML document:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. To link `styles.css` to `index.html`, add the following line inside the {{htmlelement("head")}} of the HTML document:
```

    ```html
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
    ```

>     This {{htmlelement("link")}} element tells the browser that we have a stylesheet, using the `rel` attribute, and the location of that stylesheet as the value of the `href` attribute. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This {{htmlelement("link")}} element, with the `rel` and `href` attributes, tells the browser that we have a stylesheet and provides the location of that stylesheet. 
```

> 3. To test that the CSS works, use your editor and add the following to your rule to `styles.css` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To test that the CSS works, use your editor and add the following to your rule to the `styles.css` file:
```

## Adding CSS to the document

First, tell the HTML document that we have some CSS rules we want it to use. There are three options to apply CSS to an HTML document that you'll commonly come across.  For now, we will use the most usual and useful way — linking CSS from the head of your document.

1.  Create a file in the same folder as your HTML document and save it as `styles.css`. The `.css` extension shows that this is a CSS file.

2. To link `styles.css` to `index.html`, add the following line somewhere inside the {{htmlelement("head")}} of the HTML document:

    ```html
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="styles.css">
    ```

    This {{htmlelement("link")}} element tells the browser that we have a stylesheet, using the `rel` attribute, and the location of that stylesheet as the value of the `href` attribute. 
    
3. To test that the CSS works by adding a rule to `styles.css`, use your editor and add the following to your CSS file:

    ```css
    h1 {
      color: red;
    }
    ```

> 4. Save your HTML and CSS files and reload the page in a web browser. 

Author: ```suggestion
4. Save your HTML and CSS files.
5. Reload the page in a web browser. 
```

> The level one heading at the top of the document should now be read. If that happens, congratulations — you have successfully applied some CSS to an HTML document. If that doesn't happen, carefully check that you've typed everything correctly.

Author: ```suggestion
The level one heading at the top of the document is now red. Congratulations — you have successfully applied CSS to an HTML document.
```

> You can continue to work in `styles.css` locally, or you can use our interactive editor below to continue with this tutorial. The interactive editor acts as if the CSS in the first panel is linked to the HTML document, just as we have with our document above.

Author: ```suggestion
To continue with this tutorial, you can continue to work in `styles.css` or you can use our interactive editor. 
```

## Changing the default behavior of elements

> Browsers are making the HTML readable by applying some internal stylesheets with default styles to all HTML documents. All modern browsers display HTML content by default in pretty much the same way. Headings are large and bold and lists have bullets. 

Reviewer 2: the original is a better explanation. It's more basic, and this is a very basic tutorial, explaining what a user agent stylesheet is without confusing the reader.

Author: That's so true, well spotted. 

Here's another suggestion to extract the most important information

```suggestion
When we look at a simple HTML document (like our example), we can see how the browser is making the HTML code readable. Headings are large and bold and our list has bullets. This happens because all modern browsers apply their own internal stylesheets with default styles to any page.
```

I would still leave out the last two sentences. To me, this is not relevant, as the clump will not appear due to the internal styles. And, that all browsers work in "pretty much the same way" is also clear. We could be more specific here, e.g. by adding a link to a page the user can check how they are appliedNot sure if this is what you usually do or if this is too complex for a beginner, but we could like to (not sure if you do it in your docs) though.

> Learn more on how browsers apply default styles by entering an HTML at [browserdefaultstyles.com](https://browserdefaultstyles.com)

> When we look at a simple HTML document (like our example), we can see how the browser is making the HTML code readable. Headings are large and bold and our list has bullets. This happens because all modern browsers apply their own internal stylesheets with default styles to any page.

Author: Maybe `basic`

```suggestion
When we look at a well-marked-up basic HTML document with no added CSS (like our example), we can see how the browser makes the HTML code readable. Headings are large and bold and lists have bullets. This happens because all modern browsers apply their own internal stylesheets with default styles to all pages.
```

> To change the default styles, you can choose the HTML element that you want to change and apply a CSS rule to it. A good example is `<ul>`, an unordered list. It has list bullets but you can remove them like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To change the default styles, you can choose the HTML element that you want to style and apply a CSS rule to it. A good example is `<ul>`, an unordered list. By default, it has bullets, but you can remove them like so:
```

Try adding this to your CSS now.

> The `list-style-type` property is a good property to look at on MDN to see which values are supported. Take a look at the page for [`list-style-type`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/list-style-type) and you will find an interactive example at the top of the page to try some different values in, then all allowable values are detailed further down the page.

Reviewer 2: the point of this paragraph is to introduce people to reading about properties on MDN. Let's keep it.

Author: reintroduced it, see below

> The [`list-style-type`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/list-style-type) property also supports other values, for example `square` to change the list bullets. The linked page contains an interactive example to try some different values and explains all allowable values. 

Reviewer 2: prefer the original

Author: Back to the original with a slight modification - the property name is a link now. 

```suggestion
The [`list-style-type`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/list-style-type) property is a good property to look at on MDN to see which values are supported. You will find an interactive example at the top of the page to try some different values in, then all allowable values are detailed further down the page.

Looking at that page you will discover that in addition to removing the list bullets, you can change them — try changing them to square bullets by using a value of `square`.
```

## Adding a class

> So far, we have styled elements based on their HTML element names. The CSS styles all elements of that type in your document. Often, you want to select a subset of the elements without changing the others. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So far, we have styled elements based on their HTML element names. This works as long as you want all of the elements of that type in your document to look the same. When this isn't what you want, you will need to find a way to select a subset of the elements without changing the others.
```

> The most common way to do this is to add a class to your HTML element and target that class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most common way to do this is to add a [`class` attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/class) to your HTML element and target that class.
```

Reviewer 2: the first occurrence of a term gets the link usually

1. In your HTML document, add a [class attribute](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/class) to the second list item:

    ```html
    <ul>
      <li>Item one</li>
      <li class="special">Item two</li>
      <li>Item <em>three</em></li>
    </ul>
    ```

> 2. In your CSS, target the class of `special` by creating a selector that starts with a full stop character:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. In your CSS, target the class of `special` by creating a selector that starts with a period, the full stop character:
```

Reviewer 2: i know it wasn't there originally, but I think the UK and US use different terms, so let's use both.

Reviewer 2: Can we also link the first case of "selector" to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Selectors. I don't think we define it here and we should.

Author: ```suggestion
2. In your CSS, target the class of `special` by creating a [`selector`](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Selectors) that starts with a period, the full stop character:
```

}
```

Some classes can be applied to many elements. You don't want to have to edit your CSS every time something new needs to adopt that style. Therefore, you can bypass the element and refer to the class — unless some special rules only apply to one element and you want to make sure they don't apply to other elements.

## Styling things based on their location in a document

> Sometimes, will want something to look different based on where it is in the document. There are [some selectors](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Selectors/Combinators) that can help you but we will look at just two of them.

Author: Reviewer note: This links appears again as `/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Selectors` in the hint box below. This directly links to the mentioned combinators page - IMO helpful here.

Author: oups

```suggestion
Sometimes, you will want something to look different based on where it is in the document. There are [some selectors](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Selectors/Combinators) that can help you but we will look at just two of them.
```

> Sometimes, you will want something to look different based on where it is in the document. There are [some selectors](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Selectors/Combinators) that can help you but we will look at just two of them.

Reviewer 2: a combinator is not a selector. `>` doesn't "select" an element.

Author: Going back to the original two intro sentences: 

```suggestion
Sometimes, you will want something to look different based on where it is in the document. There are a number of selectors that can help you here, but for now, we will look at just a couple.
```

> - **descendant combinator**: In our document, there are two `<em>` elements — one inside a paragraph and the other inside a list item. To select only an `<em>` that is nested inside an `<li>` element, you can put a space between the two selectors. This selector will select any `<em>` element that is inside (a descendant of) an `<li>`.

Reviewer 2: original was better

Reviewer 2: STOPPED REVIEWING HERE.

}
```

In the original HTML we provided, the only element styled is `<span class="special">`. The example above will style any element with a class of `special`, which is inside a `<p>`, which comes just after an `<h1>`, which is inside a `<body>`. Phew! Don't worry if this seems complicated at the moment — you'll soon start to get the hang of it as you write more CSS.

## Summary

> In this article, we have taken a look at how you can style a document using CSS. We will be developing this knowledge as we move through the rest of the lessons. However, you now already know enough to style text, apply CSS based on different ways of targeting elements in the document, and look up properties and values in the MDN documentation.

Author: Reviewer note: "apply CSS based on different ways of targeting elements in the document" sounds complex. Maybe you can think of anything else on how to shorten/simplify the conclusion for this chapter. I had a look at the other lessons and seen that ll summaries are (intentionally?) different but haven't found a solution yet.

Author: Maybe, I'd come up with something like this - I'd remove the last sentence, no one told me about the MDN docs in this lesson, I just landed here :) 

```suggestion
In this article, we have taken a look at how you can style a document using CSS. We will be developing this knowledge as we move through the rest of the lessons. You already know how to style text and target different elements in an HTML page.
```
